# Practice Problems for Section 2

## 38 Cons Cells (*)

Write a function `length_of_a_list` that takes an arbitrary
list (`'a list`) and evaluates to its length as an integer
number. Use pattern matching instead of list functions. Your
function should be tail-recursive.

**SIGNATURE:** `val length_of_a_list = fn : 'a list -> int`

**EXAMPLE:** `length_of_a_list [1] = 1`

## Pass/Fail

We'll do some of the old and boring "students and their
grades" stuff. We'll use the following definitions to
represent students and their grades:

    type student_id = int
    type grade = int (* must be in 0 to 100 range *)
    type final_grade = { id : student_id, grade : grade option }
    datatype pass_fail = pass | fail

Note that the grade might be absent (presumably because the
student did not take the final exam).

### Pass/Fail -- 1

Write a function `pass_or_fail` that takes a `final_grade` and
determines whether this particular student has passed or
failed the class. The passing grade is 75 (inclusive) --
everyone with a grade equal to or above 75 passes. Students
with no grade are considered to have failed the class. Your
function should evaluate to a value of type `pass_fail`. You
may assume that the grade is correct (that is, in the
specified range), and you do not need to validate the input.
Use pattern matching instead of option functions.

**NOTE:** Your signature may be a little different.

**SIGNATURE:** `val pass_or_fail = fn : {grade:int option, id:'a} -> pass_fail`

**EXAMPLE:** `pass_or_fail { id = 1023, grade = SOME 73 } = fail`

### Pass/Fail -- 2

Write a function `has_passed` that takes a `final_grade` and
evaluates to a `bool` indicating whether the given student has
passed the class. The rules for determining that are the same
as in the previous problem. Use pattern matching instead of
option functions.

**HINT:** You might want to use `pass_or_fail` here.

**NOTE:** Your signature may be a little different.

**SIGNATURE:** `val has_passed = fn : {grade:int option, id:'a} -> bool`

**EXAMPLE:** `has_passed { id = 1023, grade = SOME 73 } = false`

### Pass/Fail -- 3

Write a function `number_passed` that takes a list of
`final_grade`s and evaluates to a number of students on the
list who have passed the class. The rules for determining that
are still the same. You do not need to check whether all of
the student IDs on the list are unique (though you may treat
adding that to your implementation as a challenge problem).
Use pattern matching instead of list functions.

**NOTE:** Your signature may be a little different.

**SIGNATURE:** `val number_passed = fn : {grade:int option, id:'a} list -> int`

**EXAMPLE:** `number_passed [{ id = 1, grade = SOME 65 }, { id = 2, grade = SOME 82 }, { id = 3, grade = NONE }, { id = 5, grade = SOME 96 }] = 2`

### Pass/Fail -- 4

Write a function `group_by_outcome` that takes a list of
`final_grade`s and evaluates to a list of tuples consisting of
no more than two elements. The resulting list should be empty
if the original list was empty. If there are any students with
a passing grade on the original list, the resulting list
should contain a tuple with `pass` as the first element and
the list of IDs of passing students as the second element. The
IDs must be in the same order as they appear in the original
list. Similarly, if there are any failing students on the
list, the result should contain a tuple with `fail` for its
first element and the list of IDs of failing students as its
second element. Once again, the IDs must be in the same
relative order as in the original list. Additionally, if there
are both passing and failing students on the original list,
the resulting list should contain `(pass, ...)` before
`(fail, ...)`. As usual, use pattern matching.

**NOTE:** Your signature may be a little different.

**SIGNATURE:** `val group_by_outcome = fn : {grade:int option, id:'a} list -> (pass_fail * 'a list) list`

**EXAMPLE:** `group_by_outcome [{ id = 1025, grade = NONE }, { id = 4, grade = SOME 99 }] = [(pass, [4]), (fail, [1025])]`

## Forest For The Trees

To flex our mental muscles with algebraic data types and
records a little, we'll work with binary trees. We'll use the
following definition:

    datatype 'a tree = leaf | node of { value : 'a, left : 'a tree, right : 'a tree }

Thus a binary tree is a recusive data structure that is either
a plain `leaf`, or a `node` containing a value and two other
trees of the same type. This parallels the definition of
lists, but with two references to "following" elements.

Note that while this datatype can be used to build binary
search trees, we're not assuming the existence of any
invariant -- values in the nodes may be of any type and may be
distributed arbitrarily.

### Forest For The Trees -- 1

Write a function `tree_height` that accepts an `'a tree` and
evaluates to a height of this tree. The height of the tree is
the length of the longest path to a `leaf` in this tree. Thus
the height of a `leaf` is $$0$$.

**SIGNATURE:** `val tree_height = fn : 'a tree -> int`

**EXAMPLE:** `tree_height (node { value = 0, left = node { value = 0, left = node { value = 0, left = leaf, right = leaf }, right = leaf }, right = node { value = 0, left = leaf, right = leaf } }) = 3`

### Forest For The Trees -- 2

Write a function `sum_tree` that takes an `int tree` and
evaluates to the sum of all values in the nodes.

**SIGNATURE:** `val sum_tree = fn : int tree -> int`

**EXAMPLE:** `sum_tree (node { value = 1, left = node { value = 2, left = node { value = 3, left = leaf, right = leaf }, right = leaf }, right = node { value = 4, left = leaf, right = leaf } }) = 10`

### Forest For The Trees -- 3

We'll define a simple datatype for this problem:

    datatype flag = leave_me_alone | prune_me

Write a function `gardener` takes takes `flag tree` and
evaluates to a new tree of the same type, such that its
structure is identical to the original tree, but all nodes
marked with `prune_me` have been removed together with their
descendant nodes and replaced with leaves.

**SIGNATURE:** `val gardener = fn : flag tree -> flag tree`

**EXAMPLE:** `gardener (node { value = leave_me_alone, left = node { value = prune_me, left = node { value = leave_me_alone, left = leaf, right = leaf }, right = leaf }, right = node { value = leave_me_alone, left = leaf, right = leaf } }) = node { value = leave_me_alone, left = leaf, right = node { value = leave_me_alone, left = leaf, right = leaf } }`

## Back To The Future!

A few of the practice problems from Section 1 can be rewritten
more elegantly using the material from Section 2. All problem
statements, **SIGNATURES** and **EXAMPLES** remain the same, if
there are any additional considerations, these will be
mentioned below. Only some of the potentially eligible problems
are included -- naturally, you're welcome to rewrite the rest
on your own, using similar approaches.

### GCD -- Redux

Write a function `gcd_list` following the specification from
Section 1's **Greatest Common Divisor -- Continued** problem.
Use pattern matching instead of list functions. Use the
following implementation of `gcd` as a helper function:

    fun gcd (a : int, b : int) =
        if a = b
        then a
        else
            if a < b
            then gcd (a, b - a)
            else gcd (a - b, b)

### Element Of A List -- Redux

Write a function `any_divisible_by` following the
specification from Section 1's **Element Of A List** problem.
Use pattern matching instead of list functions. Use the
following implementation of `is_divisible_by` as a helper
function:

    fun is_divisible_by (a : int, b : int) = a mod b = 0

### Quirky Addition -- Redux (**)

Write a function `add_opt` following the specification from
Section 1's **Quirky Addition** problem. Use pattern matching
instead of option functions. You may and should use option
constructors.

### Quirky Addition -- Continued -- Redux (**)

Write a function `add_all_opt` following the specification
from Section 1's **Quirky Addition -- Continued** problem. Use
pattern matching instead of list and option functions.

### Flip Flop -- Redux (**)

Write a function `alternate` following the specification from
Section 1's **Flip Flop** problem. Use pattern matching
instead of list functions.

### Minimum/Maximum -- Redux (**)

Write a function `min_max` following the specification from
Section 1's **Minimum/Maximum** problem. Use pattern matching
instead of list functions.

### Lists And Tuples, Oh My! - Redux

Write a function `unzip` following the specification from
Section 1's **Lists And Tuples, Oh My!** problem. Use pattern
matching instead of list functions.

**NOTE:** The type of your function is probably going to be
more general that the one specified in the original problem.
That's totally fine -- awesome, actually!

### BBCA -- Redux (**)

Write a function `repeats_list` following the specification
from Section 1's **BananaBanana -- Continued (Again)**
problem. Use pattern matching instead of list functions.

**NOTE:** The type of your function is probably going to be
more general that the one specified in the original problem.
That's totally fine -- awesome, actually!

(*) The author of this problem apologizes for using an obscure
cultural reference that is unlikely to be understood by anyone
who does not speak author's native language as a title for
this problem. Couldn't resist the temptation.

(**) Problems contributed by Charilaos Skiadas.

